# Artist's Statement:

Hard to Move On is a program about the five stages of grief expressed in words as well as actions. There are five stages, the first, denial, being the stage that the main character, the sheep, starts in. Then the player can choose to go to the bottom which is anger, top which is bargaining, left which is depression or right which is acceptance, from the initial stage to experience the grieving stages in their own abstract way. While the acceptance stage is the end of the game before it starts over, I feel like even if the player chooses to go to the right first, in a way it symbolizes how everyone experiences grieving differently. The goal in this program is to experience each stage and grow a little bit more every time until the acceptance stage truly is where the moving on begins. Each stage has a small statement describing the feelings that occur in the stage; these can be acquired by certain actions the player must do. For the technical aspect, I really enjoyed making each action a little different within each stage but also keeping the code to what I know and working with that. However, I really wanted to play with animations since I had the opportunity to do that with sprites. Thus, a lot of my actions are more animation focused than action focused. Artistically, I enjoyed making the sprites physical objects or creatures but they all symbolize their own meaning, such as the sheep symbolizing innocence and trust and the coyote symbolizing cunningness. All elements in my program have a deeper meaning than what they truly are. I wanted my program to be interesting and each stage to be unique to itself, but still have the same tones to stick by my way of programming, which is simple but thoughtful.